My name is Richard Howell Shaw. I am a person, not a native of Newport but I've frequented
it on many occasions. I will be telling you my experience of watching the cult on the
Love Electric tour sometime in the late 80s. I can't quite exactly work out when it was.
Newport Centre. I think it was my first gig. I'm not sure. My first proper gig. It was,
so I went to see Public Enemy and I've got a timeline thing going on so I can't quite
work out whether it was Public Enemy or the cult. Quite a difference between the two.
What was memorable about it was I was very young. I was still in school so I must have been,
I was less than 16, so maybe 15 or 14 years old and I was making my own attempts at trying to be
a young man I guess and it was an interesting, kind of scary experience because I was in a
large town and I'm used to small villages because I was surrounded by people who were drunk and I
wasn't. That's probably another reason why it's my most memorable gig because I wasn't heavily
intoxicated. I was wearing a pair of tight black jeans, winkle pickers and a ski jacket.
I hadn't quite formed my luck by that time or maybe my budget hadn't extended to a black jacket
and I certainly didn't know what the opportunity was. I was wondering if I could, if I may be a
goth. The most memorable bit of the gig I think was the spitting. The audience was spitting at
the band and I remember Ian Asbury, the singer of the cult, said Anymore Flamon was stopping
the gig and I believe that Billy Duffy shouted yeah. They carried on so my assumption is there
was less spitting but that doesn't really go with the punk ethos of the early cult maybe,
I don't know. Was there a punk ethos with the cult? I mean I wasn't spitting, it wasn't my fault.
I don't know what Ian Asbury's mum looks like but I can hazard a guess. I think he was wearing a
large fur hat and a leather jacket but I'm just, no, I'm just, that's a composite of imagery from
that time. He was probably wearing a lot of phlegm as well. Yeah I would say there were a number of
goth types, there were some punk types. I mean I think back in those days people tended to kind
of, there was an element of tribalism but people would also come together for certain acts so
definitely felt like there was a culture thing going on. There weren't too many people like me
but then I was very young to be going there and I think Eve and I was aware of that at the time,
that's why I was slightly scared. Felt like a different world. I think there were about three
or four of us from school. I can't remember how we got here, I can't remember how we got back,
but we did. I can't remember how I negotiated that with my parents either but it's my first
proper gig. I think, I'm not clear, it could have been public anyway. I would say it would be cold
because yes once again I was wearing a ski jacket. I felt pretty cool in school. I felt slightly
more unruly. I felt that I was slightly better maybe than other people or I had a little bit
of a secret. I was feeling quite young. I probably felt connected, happy and joyful.